---
document_id: INT-RPT-2024-280-L0
title: Self-Criticism of October 7th Palestine Solidarity Event
type: report
security: L0
version: 1.0.0
date: 2024-10-07
status: approved
author: Kansas Socialist Book Club
description: A criticism/self criticism of an event organized on October 7 for Palestinian Liberation
tags:
  - report
  - self-criticism
  - palestine
  - event
  - lawrence
permalink: csc/07102024rally
---
# Self-Criticism of our October 7 Event 

*the following document is a structured Criticism and self-Criticism of an event we organized. Special thanks are given to Cde Alkemy for their observations, criticism, and patience in spending their time after the event to discuss this criticism patiently. Their observations were invaluable in constructing this document.* 

- ***What was supposed to happen?***
	- The KS-SBC planned to host a political educational event about Palestinian Liberation to commemorate Palestinian liberation and Al Aqsa flood. We wanted to tie this into the theme of national liberation, which is the current topic our book club has chosen to discuss and study for the month of October. This event was planned to happen simultaneously in two cities: Lawrence and Manhattan.
	- Preparations for the event consisted of Cde Persephone writing an initial draft of the pamphlet, which was proposed to the group. Cde Zach and Cde Kaden contributed their ideas and recommendations which resulted in modifications that improved and sharpened the pamphlet. We Also planned an advertising campaign for both cities to consist of social media outreach and plastering stickers. As well as leaving pamphlets in sympathetic businesses and community spaces.
- ***What actually happened?***
	- On The night prior to the event, all three Active Organizers as well as Cde Alkemy went to Lawrence. In Lawrence we walked around the downtown area and posted many stickers advertising the event. We left pamphlets in two book stores as well as a community organizing space that was well frequented by many other groups, including those already doing Palestine work.
	- The event happened in one city: Lawrence. Ten people showed up approximately. Only one KS-SBC organizer was in attendance. We had a discussion about the history of Palestines occupation extending back to Balfour Declaration and Nakba. We had a discussion about resistance. 
	- After our conversation we stood on a busy intersection And demonstrated with flags and signs to gauge the temperature of public support. There was about a 3:1 positive to negative reaction. Some verbal aggression from passers by but no physical escalation to violence.
- ***What can be sustained?***
	- *Outreach by virtue of network.* Cde Alkemy leveraged their connections with local Lawrence organizations. These connections and the people they drew in were what we would consider to be advanced sections of the proletariat. The people that Cde Alkemy's word of mouth advertising drew in had a strong understanding of Palestinian Liberation and furthermore are engaged in what we would characterize as an advanced level of consciousness in organizing. They identified a specific local target -- ICL chemical plant -- and they have done impressive research into the connections it has to the Zionist Entity as well as have some successes rallying the community against this cause. These are precisely the kind of people who could become Organizers and would be ideal people to draw into Marxist political education. Our Organizers were able to solidify pre existing connections and forge new ones so we are not as dependent upon the goodwill of other Comrades and can independently assemble our own network.
	- *Our educational materials*: Every attendee at our event positively reacted to our pamphlet. They were impressed by the principled rigor and the level of detail that was condensed into a two-page bifold pamphlet. Seasoned Palestine organizers who already have a strong understanding of the subject matter expressed that they learned some things they didn't know from our pamphlet, and appreciated our principled and unapologetic line on defending Palestines Resistance. This is a sign that our Book Club has a coherent ideological line and that furthermore we are effectively distilling that line in a way such that non-Marxists can digest our ideological lessons.
	- *Preparation of Equipment*: Cde Persephone had resources useful for a protest staged and ready to go. Although this plan was improvised and hasty - a criticism we will dive into in the next section - we were none the less able to stage and deploy comrades to another city in less than an hour, with effectively no more than a 24 hour notice. Our organization had pre-made signs, already printed and assembled literature for handing out, some "swag" (specifically pro-resistance stickers designed by our Club) to hand out freely, and rapidly assembled to react to an immediate development. Although the spontaneity is an error, there is a strength that can be distilled from this net mistake that is worth sustaining. Our organization has demonstrated a rapid response capability which can be tapped into for a variety of issues. If this spontaneity is tempered while the readiness is preserved, that would strengthen our overall capabilities and prepare us for a smooth transition from book club into a pre party formation.
- ***What Can Be Improved***?
	- *Lack of Planning*: This event was very impromptu. October 7th is a well known date in advance so there was no excuse for the lack of prior planning. We could have arranged this weeks in advanced. But due to our lives being busy we did not. However, Cde Persephone accepted responsibility for this error and issued a self criticism. She stated that she was the primary force driving the push for this event, and after some reflection understands that this error arises from her petit-bourgeois impetuosity. She rightfully was upset and disturbed by the hesitancy of other organizations to broach a Palestine Solidarity event on October 7th and correctly identified this as a sign of liberalism in the Kansas activist community. But instead of careful and collective planning, Cde Persephone exerted her will upon others and pressured them into doing something they were not prepared to do. It also reflects a tendency for her bias towards spontaneity. Another manifestation of the lack of planning was a disregard for site selection. To mitigate this error, we firstly must agree ahead of time with sufficient time for hosting an event. If there is no current event planner in advanced it is better to not do it at all. We also need to conduct site reconnaissance ahead of time to ensure maximal visibility as well as plan for safety and contingencies. Finally we need to give adequate time to tap into pre existing networks of organizers.
	- *poor advertisement*: many issues with what little planning existed were magnified by lack of communication. The advertising messaging for the event was very last minute. On the flyer there was no attribution of a group that's responsible. There were misspellings on the stickers and the improper name of the park was used which added to confusion. No social medias were used to advertise. While we do have Instagram and Facebook, the Twitter account is currently locked out because of 2 factor authentication issues that we are working to resolve. To improve upon this we need to get our ducks in a row with social media, we need to pay careful attention to the fine details of our advertising, and we need to have adequately long campaigns to generate buzz for one-of events that aren't following a schedule.
	- *Confusion on purpose of event*: There was a disconnect between Cde Persephone perception of the event as primarily a forum for political education, and Cde Kaden perception of the event as a protest. This was papered over in hastiness when it should have been hashed out more thoroughly. A false unity was reached. This can be corrected moving forward by taking time for deliberation and ensuring that intentions are properly communicated. Every member should verify their understanding of intents as well.
	- *Lack of contingency plans*: we had no plans for extreme events. What if someone was injured by an aggressive heckler? What if the police were in a foul mood and told us to scram or be arrested? How would disruptive people be handled? How would everyone's safety be maximized? None of these question were part of a discussion. We can fix this by having that discussion.