# Section 1 - A Response to Proudhon
## Summation of Main Points
* Pierre Joseph-Proudhon was a French intellectual, anarchist, and idealistic socialist who lived at the same time as Marx and Engels. He represented a very popular strain of thought and was well-regarded across Europe as one of the leading thinks of socialism. As we see in this essay, Engels thoroughly discredits Proudhon and shows us the error of idealism in his thinking. In order to spread the correctness of the ideas of scientific socialism, Marx and Engels had to spend time debating and debunking those theories that did not correlate to reality.
	* How does Proudhonism still show up today?
* Housing was a hot topic even in the 1800s. And today we are rehashing many of the debates that were touched upon here in this excerpt of a book from over 100 years ago. So, if you want to know why we're reading a relatively ancient tome when the modern world of America is so much different than 1800s England, well -- it's because we're still having the same conversations Marx and Engels had!
	* What were some of the incorrect ideas being circulated around at the time of Engels?
	* Which of those ideas have you encountered?
	* Why do you think they are still popular even though Engels and others have rebuked them?
* Engels argues that the housing crisis isn't due to a lack of home ownership, or a constraint of supply, or skyrocketing prices. Engels argues that ***the roots of the housing crisis can all be traced back to the class relationship between landlord and tenant***. Therefore, since the tenant-landlord relationship is the cause of the problem, any solution that doesn't address that contradiction will be temporary at best.
	* Think of various proposed solutions to the housing crisis in modern day America. Do those solutions address the issue of the landlord class? Why or why not?
* Engels spends some time cautioning us from comparing the landlord-tenant reltaionship to the worker-bourgeoisie relationship. Certainly this is a tempting metaphor. But just because something sounds clever doesn't mean it's actually true, and as scientific socialists our concern is always first with knowing what is true. He cites differences being that the tenant doesn't create value in the same way that a worker selling their labor-power on the market creates value. That is because the tenant isn't really selling anything to the landlord, unlike a laborer who sells their ability to work.
* Engels also criticizes Proudhons absurd legalistic idealism. He talks about the issue where Proudhon says that "a house is a perpetual legal title" whose purpose is "to obtain its cost back ten times over in the course of fifty years in the form of rent." Proudhon frequently makes appeals to "justice" or "The Law (tm)" to justify his arguments when he fails at the economics and material reality of things..
	* What exactly is wrong with appeals to justice?
	* Why is it important to get things scientifically precise?
* Engels lambasts the idea that home ownership is somehow a solution to the housing crisis. In fact, he demonstrates how home ownership is actually a classic tool of the ruling class to pacify the working class and encourage docility.
	* Why might home ownership be beneficial at getting workers to align with reaction?
	* What is the composition of tenants vs owners in the US? in Kansas? where you live specifically?
	* How does home ownership intersect with settler society?
* On a broader topic, Engels talks many times about how in society, a class which does not perform productive labor can only survive by consuming the fruits of anothers labor. In order for such classes of people to exist, they must necessarily consume the surplus value generated by the labor of others.
	* What are some examples of professions like this in America?
	* How does imperialism play into this?
	* How does settler colonialism affect this?
* 