---
description: An official statement of the Kansas Socialist Book Club's position regarding the ongoing genocide in Palestine.
permalink: statements/palestine
---
Endorsed on August 13, 2024 
# Intro
The following is a statement to represent the official positions and views of the Kansas Socialist Book Club and all subsidiary Branches. To summarize it very succinctly and matter of fact: we have firm, unconditional support with the people of Palestine. We support their war of national liberation against the Zionist Entity. The state of so-called "Israel" is an illegitimate entity, and has no right to exist. The Palestinian people are justified to therefore fight against "Israel" so-called, by whatever means they deem necessary. our support comes with no-strings-attached. Full liberation now.

# Palestinian Genocide
***The Palestinian people are being systematically eradicated in a settler colonial genocide.*** This Genocide has been occurring for over 75 years, since the brutal Nakba. It has always been a constant presence, and is nothing new. While the intensity and pace of that genocide may ebb and flow with politics and time, *the fact is that this genocide is approaching a century of occurrence*. The material force behind this genocide is **settler colonialism** conducted by the state of "Israel" (herein referred to as the Zionist Entity). Contrary to popular belief, *this genocide did not begin with al-Aqsa flood on October 7, 2023. There was no "normalcy" before then.* There was merely a slow simmer, which the noble Palestinian resistance has drawn to the forefront through their steadfast defense of their people and nation.

The purpose of this genocide by the Zionist Entity is not due to any religion or ethnicity. Various bad actors have blamed some essential characteristics of the Jewish people, or a millennia old "religious conflict", or racial characteristics of the Arab peoples, or some other such nonsense. **Let it be known that this is all demonstrably false**. Furthermore, such ideas are blatant forms of fascist white supremacism. We explicitly rebuke any and all such explanations, because they are simply not true.

The truth of the matter has nothing to do with Judaism or Islam. It has nothing to do with Jews or Gentiles or Arabs. The truth of the matter is that this genocide is caused by the phenomenon of Settler Colonialism, which is one of the foundational pillars of our Book Club [[curriculum]]. The Palestinian genocide is a material force carried out by the Zionist Entity ***for the explicit, material purpose of stealing Palestinian land and transferring it to a class of Zionist settlers***.

# Palestinian Resistance
Our Book Club unconditionally supports the Palestinian Resistance in whatever form it may take, no strings attached. We recognize in Palestine a national liberation struggle in opposition to colonialism, racism, and imperialism. We therefore lend our support from across the state of Kansas in the strongest solidarity with any and all factions of the Palestinian Resistance. We look up to the Resistance as Comrades, as Mentors, and as Role Models for how we might organize and conduct our own revolution here in America. Palestinians are not a charity case for our pity; they are a steadfast people resisting extermination. And they are a people who have many lessons from which we can learn, by treating them as equals and comrades of the global working class.

We recognize the complexities and nuances of the Palestinian resistance, and understand that it has a lot of complex dynamics. There are multiple factions. Some of those factions embrace Political Islam. Others, such as the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, embrace various flavors of secular Marxism. We wish to integrate the lessons of Palestine's struggle for national liberation into our own curriculum, and see what lessons can be applied to our own circumstances in America.

As Marxists ourselves, we would be remiss if we did not acknowledge that our book club leans most strongly towards favoring the PFLP and the DFLP because of our shared basis in the science of Marxism and Communism. Although our book club is Marxist and secular, we respect the right of the Palestinian people to choose how they want to organize, and affirm our unwavering support of all factions of Palestinian resistance, to include the infamous Hamas. We remain steadfast in our support of Palestinian liberation, whatever that ends up looking like. It's not our job as Americans to tell Palestinians what do, though we may offer comradely criticisms and analyses when appropriate out of the spirit of criticism. However, such criticism should never be interpreted in a way as to suggest we do not support Palestine's national liberation. We criticize to improve and develop, not to tear down and destroy.

We also recognize that although there are legitimate contradictions among the resistance itself (for example, the contradiction between the Palestinian working class and the Palestinian national bourgeoisie who find representation within factions such as Hamas), the struggle for Palestinian national liberation is clearly the principal contradiction and therefore, it makes complete sense to support alliances such as Hamas, even if we ourselves do not adhere to Political Islam. We also recognize that Western attempts at cynically invoking LGBTQ+ rights, women's rights, and religious freedom are absolute nonsense that have nothing to do with combatting chauvinism and everything to do with manufacturing consent for imperialism.

# On so-called "Israel", aka the Zionist Entity
Let us state in no uncertain terms: ***The Zionist Entity, "Israel", is completely illegitimate. It has no right to exist.*** It is a genocidal, settler colonial entity whose purpose is to steal land and genocide Palestinians. Nothing short of the complete and total destruction of the state of Israel, combined with the repatriation of all lands to the Palestinians, will ever suffice.

Our book club will never teach any lessons which affirm the right of Israel to exist. We will never back down from this point. It is a position for which there is absolutely no compromise, because *there is no compromising on the issue of genocide*. We hope this is emphatically clear enough.

We have no sympathies for the Zionist settlers. We also believe that the "Israeli" working class is a fictitious entity, a rhetorical phantasm that does not exist. Calls from communists to appeal to the "Israeli" working class are naïve at best, and wrecking at worst. *If the Israeli working class were capable of exercising solidarity with the Palestinians, then they would be sabotaging their own army. They would be fragging their officers. They would be calling for mass resistance to the draft. **But they are not**.* Although a handful of Zionist settlers have resisted the draft -- an action for which we commend and also recognize as doing the absolute bare minimum -- this is a matter of isolated individuals acting in an uncoordinated and unorganized fashion. Until the Zionist working class demonstrates some capacity to organize anything but the most anodyne, milquetoast, and worthless protests against their own government, we write them off wholesale as collaborators in genocide. Therefore, we have no sympathy for their casualties or losses.

# The Relationship between the Zionist Entity and America
As Americans, our concern in organizing is how we can effect change in our own government and our own society to weaken and disrupt the Zionist Entity, as well as how we can rally the public not just to end the genocide but to embolden and support the Palestinian Resistance. Therefore, it is of vital importance to clarify the nature of the relationship between the Zionist Entity and the United States of America. If we do not correctly assess this relationship, then our activism and our organizing will be at best misguided, and at worst co opted by fascism.

**The relationship between Israel and the United States is one where Israel is a client of the US and serves US interests**. It is not the converse; The US is not a puppet of or controlled by Israel. This distinction is of vital importance to understand.

To imply that the US is controlled by "Israel" is to veer into the territory of fascist antisemitism and conspiracy. In addition to being chauvinistic against Jews, this is simply wrong. Therefore we wish to emphasize that the idea of the Zionist Entity controlling the US as a shadowy cabal is harmful and wrong because it misguides workers and obfuscates the true nature of the relationship at hand.

The United States benefits from Zionisms existence in two major ways. Firstly, it serves as a colonial outpost into the Middle East and North African regions of the world. These geopolitical territories are filled with oil. Oil also flows through the Suez Canal for transport. Therefore, it can be said that the Zionist Entity serves as a staging point for US operations to protect the flow of energy that powers the empire.

Secondly, the Zionist Entity serves as a laboratory for testing military tactics and technologies of oppression in a live environment. It is a sickening kind of laboratory in which Zionist fascists conduct macabre experiments in military science and surveillance on Palestinians. These technologies, once perfected in the battlefields of Gaza and West Bank, are then exported to the US for use in oppressing our own working class. Additionally, Zionist and American bourgeoisie make record profits off the misery and genocide of the Palestinian people.

